so idx
is a cross protocol identity standard
tying into the previous talks by
daniel and joel idx which we'll dive
into is really a way to
manage the entire universe of user
information
or or just generally information about a
did
in a decentralized way and it's built on
top of ceramic so it has all the
properties
that joel just described and uses
ceramic tiles
and other stream processing data
types to basically create the system
and all right
so for fear of repetition here um
i won't go into detail about all these
things but sort of building on what
daniel said
um identity is really the aggregation of
information about a subject so the
entire universe of all the things you
say
do your presence online
and in web 2 obviously we have app
specific identifiers that require
you know server side authentication um
and in a traditional you know relational
database model if you're using dynamodb
or something
you'll probably you know build a user
table um except these are all just
fragmented in app silos so they can
really only map to other data resources
produced by the user as they interact
with that single application
and they're not designed for
interoperability so they're you know
they're tied to the one tech stack
implementation that that application
chooses
and they actively discourage
discoverability of this information by
outsiders they keep it safeguarded
because that's
their business but in web 3
it sort of aims to flip that model from
app silo to user silo
and the pieces of that are open
identifiers so did's
um like daniel and joel talked about
with sort of
you know client-side authentication it
could be server-side but sort of
client-side as the starting point
for decentralization and
uh ideally you have this unified
did-centric
index of information and resources
associated to that
user or that identity um
ideally this index you know maps to
resources anywhere because
you know there are different data
producers and consumers so as a user
interacts with app
a app a might be storing data uh
directly in file coin
or app b might be storing data in text
style app c might be storing data on a
centralized
data store somewhere and the aim is to
make all that data
interoperable and discoverable in a
single place a unified location
independent from any technology that any
single application implements
and i won't have to go through this so
thanks daniel but the building block is
dids
really critical to sort of understand
that these are
decentralized identifiers registered in
some decentralized
you know ledger or data platform
where this data is independent of any
third party
and these identifiers and their
resulting
documents that they represent um
are truly decentralized because
everything sort of builds from that
and so if we think about you know the
design goals of really
what one wants to achieve when designing
a decentralized identity standard
we can see them on the list here and so
the first one
is really just flexibility sort of
making
the standard agnostic to
any particular technology stack that a
given application developer might choose
to deploy on
um so it's ideal that this standard
works with any did method know whether
it's ion
you know being run by microsoft or
element the other implementation of side
tree or three id did and some other
did's native to ceramic like it
shouldn't
matter um because these dids will come
from all over the place
um it should work with all
authentication methods
and key pairs so you know being able to
control
one identity from n number of
sign in methods whether that's a
blockchain key pair in a client-side
wallet
or a social login managed by a service
on a server
um they should all be able to control
the root identifier which from that you
generate
you know the signatures and the
encryption which enables attribution of
content and
and control of information and
should work with all data storage
technologies formats and locations so
whatever you want to build on whatever
wherever you want to deploy it shouldn't
matter
uh discoverability so this is really the
key piece
um to building sort of this this data
index
where instead of the app solid model
where we have today
um you know moving towards a user silo
or user-centric model
it's important that we begin to describe
data
semantically versus describing it like
oh it's data from app a or data from app
b
because app c might not like care or
know that you know
app a and b are both blogging platforms
and so i need to
know which other apps a user has used
when i'm querying
this information it should be described
by the data itself like by the shape of
the data the schema
some metadata and description so that
it's more interoperable it's not tied
you don't need to know all of the other
apps that are also using the standard in
order to
consume data that wasn't created by your
application
and this should all be organized in one
logically centralized location and it's
logically centralized because
uh it exists in one place but it's on a
decentralized network so it's you know
sort of physically decentralized but
logically centralized
um and it should be privacy preserving
so this system should be able to support
public and private information
as daniel mentioned um and really the
the concept of pseudonymity and
progressive identity needs to be
prevalent when designing it you can't
build an identity standard that
has it has a requirement for like a meet
space id or like a government-issued
legal identity to use and onboard but
rather
all identities sort of start
pseudonymous and empty
and depending on what sort of
information the user adds to them as
they interact with apps
this identity begins again begins to
gain
meaning over time as it's used and it's
up to the user to decide what sort of
information they want to add to this
identity um
some of them could end up taking on the
shape of legal identities maybe that
same user has a different
identity that they begin to form into a
different sort of like persona
um you know we're not limiting one user
to one idx
um but rather sort of keeping it open so
it can be used in
as many ways as desirable and
it's important that these have standard
interfaces so um
you know common a common way to read and
write information from this
index um makes things interoperable you
don't have to integrate one-off apis for
every single data source
um because that would be too cumbersome
to actually achieve our goals of
interoperability
and you know trustless and scalable so
deployed on decentralized permissionless
infrastructure in the same way that
daniel said dids themselves should be
uh well also this index idx data
structure
should be um sort of as the first
principle
because then it's really controlled by
the users and not by a third party
or a server that if it goes down all of
your data and routing information is now
gone
um even if it's for a period of minutes
and scalability so the infrastructure
the decentralized infrastructure it's
built on needs to be able to scale to be
able to support it
um which is sort of why we deployed idx
on ceramic
and a quick intro to how actually works
so it's a decentralized data structure
using ceramic
streams for associating any kind of data
to a diddy
so here you see did one happens to be a
three id
which is a method native to ceramic it
uses a tile as joel said
and here on the bottom you see did two
it's an ion did
so it's you know anchored in bitcoin on
the ion
protocol and network and they both have
a corresponding index and
even though the did documents that
daniel talked about he showed
they have public keys used for signature
verification encryption
and also additionally service endpoints
the nice thing about ceramic and idx is
you don't actually have to register
the index in the did document as a
service
you could for redundancy
but ceramic has this deterministic
property where
if you know the did and you know you're
looking for its index you can
deterministically
query for this index and the ceramic
protocol will resolve and return
the index for the user without needing
to actually establish a link
which is critical because there's so
many different did methods having like a
common way to plug them in
might not always be feasible so given a
did you can always deterministically
generate what its index is and return
the current state
and here you see two users and so next
the developer will create a schema
publish that to ceramic in a tile and
we'll take that ceramic stream id and
plug it into a definition and then
deploy that definition on ceramic as a
tile and the definition basically is the
semantic description
of a resource and so here you see some
metadata let's assume
that it's a basic profile it has some
description
a universal profile and it has a schema
so this serves
the the stream id of this definition
serves as a key in the index and as a
developer i only need to create a
definition once
and i can use it for n number of users
so in user one on the top
and these are two on the bottom that
same
stream id
both of their indexes and now as a user
user one comes to my app they plug in
some profile information
it happens to be satoshi they have an
ipfs image
and they have a description and
at that point using the idx api when you
create this record
it the idx library automatically
publishes the definition
stream id and the record stream id which
is a separate stream
into your index so now you have this map
from
stream id of definition to stream id of
record
so you have information stored
semantically organized
and now when user 2 comes the same
definition stream id is
is a key in their index and they create
a separate record which is its own
stream
which contains their profile so now you
have
thousands of users of your app they all
build on one common data definition
and each of the corresponding data
records are stored separately
in streams and
in these records i think it's important
to call out
they can either directly contain data
like the example i just showed of the
basic profile you can just dump that
json data in a record
and it's sort of self-contained or you
can use
records as sort of jump off points or
routing mechanisms to
external storage so the record in that
case would just contain you know a uri
and potentially some other metadata
which when resolved would enable you to
route to
some external to idx source of
information
and that could be other ceramic
documents like imagine you have
an idx record that says blog posts and
so
in it you just have an array of ceramic
dock ids
and each of those ceramic or stream ids
and each of those streams is an
independent blog post so those would
sort of be considered external storage
and you're using idx as sort of an
aggregation mechanism for all of those
pointers you can do the same thing
imagining it with
filecoin files or files stored on any
other sort of
decentralized durable storage network
you could point to textile data stores
or orbit data stores other centralized
versions or even on-chain contracts
and so sort of serving as this
technology independent way you can use
records as sort of
data stores or pointers to additional
data stores which sort of all serve to
organize information
and idx is more
than just about users as daniel and joel
both said
if it can be represented by a did it can
have an idx so
you know for the case of people it's
pretty self-explanatory
organizations uh with the did
specifications that joel was talking
about
or however they choose to represent
themselves content
the nft did method allows nfts which are
digital content to now have an identity
and have their org all their information
organized in an idx which allows them to
build up this
entire meta content universe that's
portable and moves around with that
nft and even devices uh and
adoption so um ceramicsville and testnet
but more than 100 projects are signed up
for elp
the early launch program on ceramic um
there's a bunch of big names here um and
we're looking forward to a pretty
successful launch
um and i think i noticed that i left one
slide out really quickly but i can talk
through it and that's um you know some
common use cases for records where
that we're seeing already and that's
using a record
as actually an authentication keychain
for a did so you can take the did
seed you can encrypt it with some
blockchain account let's say
and store it in a record and you're
storing an array of effectively
encrypted
seed material and so as a user you know
uses their meta mask to sign into an app
that app can then decrypt the did seed
in an iframe that's secure and protected
we are building one called 3d connect
which allows users to sort of
authenticate their did from all of their
blockchain wallets
people are using it for profiles and
social graphs um
user generated content like blog posts
and photos
and user settings so you know maybe a
user says i want to persist all my files
to this specific powergate instance
that's running filecoin
um and so instead of the app itself
you know running a powergate instance
for all of its users data
users can specify their own so they're
sort of bringing their files
and their persistence with them from
platform to platform so they can have
one universal building where
you know maybe they're being billed and
they subscribe to this specific backup
provider
that is now portable across all these
interfaces
um alternative approaches to idx i
figured it'd be worthwhile mentioning
them to so you can
see the difference um you could like you
know people say why don't you store
everything in the did document
um that's really hard one because sort
of
agreeing on all of the standards for all
of the data formats and how to interpret
the data in a did document seems
extremely difficult
um and so those standards are going to
be impossible to achieve for
the entire data that is represented by
the digital world
and so having some way to describe
definitions and semantically organizing
it
outside the bounds of the did document
is important additionally
did documents need to be kept super
lightweight
because they're probably one of the most
synced things like every time you go to
an app they need to sync your did
document
and so if that document just keeps
growing the sync time
uh increases and it bloats that document
away from the critical information which
is really just the signature
um keys like your public keys for
signatures of encryption
um some say you use a smart contract did
well
that sort of ties your your did and your
index and wraps it into one thing
um and is sort of tied to a specific
blockchain network where it makes it
really hard to do cross-chain
interoperability
and all of the sort of flexibility
around data descriptions
and alternatively i think what daniel
said is you know there is a service
endpoint in the did document which can
point to a secure data store or personal
data store
where a lot of your information is
managed on a server instance running
somewhere
um and all apps write and read to write
to and read from that single instance
managed by theoretically you but in all
practice by a
cloud provider um and that just doesn't
seem like a valid approach
to decentralization um because if sort
of that if that server
is the first jumping off point to find
all your data
there's a big responsibility on that
single server even if it's replicated
so relying on decentralized
infrastructure to be that first
jump point and then if you choose to
route to
a secure data store from idx to store a
subset
of your information that you want to
keep super encrypted and private on a
server
seems like a better approach so it
should be like dids idx
then whatever hosted data source you
would want rather than going directly
from did
to hosted data store um and yeah you can
get started with this stuff today
so ceramic has a javascript full node
which can run in browser or client-side
or an http api
and for authentication you can
authenticate your did with all kinds of
blockchain wallets that your users
already have
using through id connect or you can
natively integrate a did provider if
you're trying to do something more
complex
um an idx is a javascript sdk so
you can drop it right into your app
client side and it works
um and yeah you can check out the docs
developers.idx.xyz
our blog at ceramic network
has a lot of good content and tutorials
if you're looking to play around
and if you're interested in trying these
things out ceramic is on test nets you
can just go ahead and start building
but if you want to move your app to
production um on these systems i would
encourage you to sign up for the early
launch program
um that will sort of that we're
accepting applications for now and will
officially go live in a little more than
a month
so that's all for me
you